The site office – an
exploration into how
temporary workspaces
can be designed to
maximise productivity
and wellbeing
Chris Rose, 2024

Previous research has shown that well-designed workplaces enhance
employee satisfaction and productivity. However, in the construction
industry, temporary office facilities provided during construction often
follow a one-size-fits-all, cost-driven approach that neglects user’s
evolving needs. Users, typically knowledge workers such as engineers and
managers, must balance collaboration with focused work as their roles
increasingly shift towards a technology-driven environment.
This study investigates the relationship between leadership priorities in
providing temporary office facilities on active construction projects and
the experiences of the users operating in these facilities. Six key leaders
from three similar projects, each featuring comparable temporary office
facilities, were interviewed. Additionally, 128 office users across the three
projects were surveyed using the Building Use Studies methodology.

1

Thematic analysis of the interviews and survey responses revealed three
major themes: (1) the working environment matters – the results highlight
the importance of internet data supply, meeting rooms, and environmental
conditions; (2) background noise and the effect of distractions, the ability
to focus, and the importance of collaboration; (3) lack of control – analysis
reveals how the leadership defines the facility, how typical standards
constrain it, and users’ resignation to their environment.
The findings advance knowledge in the under-explored field of temporary
office supply. The study reveals that although the project leadership team
recognise the importance of creating efficient, diverse spaces that offer
users various work environments, they are often limited by traditional
practices and budget constraints. Improving the process by which the
facilities are specified could significantly enhance user satisfaction and
productivity.

2

